New-term ExCo membership announced (with photos)
************************************************

     The Chief Executive-elect (CE-elect), Mrs Carrie Lam, today (June 22) announced the membership of the Executive Council (ExCo) of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region from July 1, 2017. As provided for under the Basic Law, members of the ExCo are appointed by the Chief Executive.

     The new ExCo comprises all 16 Principal Officials under the political appointment system and 16 non-official members.

     The 16 non-official members are Mr Bernard Charnwut Chan, Mrs Laura Cha Shih May-lung, Professor Arthur Li Kwok-cheung, Mr Chow Chung-kong, Mrs Fanny Law Fan Chiu-fun, Mr Jeffrey Lam Kin-fung, Mr Ip Kwok-him, Mr Tommy Cheung Yu-yan, Mr Martin Liao Cheung-kong, Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong, Mrs Regina Ip Lau Suk-yee, Mr Ronny Tong Ka-wah, Mr Wong Kwok-kin, Dr Lam Ching-choi, Mr Kenneth Lau Ip-keung and Mr Cheung Kwok-kwan. Mr Bernard Charnwut Chan will also take up the position of Convenor in the new ExCo.

     "ExCo members are the Chief Executive's most important policy advisers. I am grateful to each and every one of the 16 non-official members for accepting my invitation to serve. I am sure their rich experience in various fields will provide valuable inputs to the making of important policy decisions," said Mrs Carrie Lam.

     Following are biographical notes on the non-official members:

Mr Bernard Charnwut Chan
------------------------
     Aged 52. Mr Chan is currently President of Asia Financial Holdings Limited and Asia Insurance Company Limited. He is the Chairperson of the Hong Kong Council of Social Service, Chairman of the Steering Committee on Restored Landfill Revitalisation Funding Scheme and Chairman of the Committee on Reduction of Salt and Sugar in Food. He is also a Hong Kong Deputy to the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. He previously served as a Legislative Council Member as well as Chairman of the Council of Lingnan University, the Council for Sustainable Development, the Antiquities Advisory Board, the Advisory Committee on Revitalisation of Historic Buildings and the Standing Committee on Judicial Salaries and Conditions of Service. Mr Chan was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2006.

Mrs Laura Cha Shih May-lung
---------------------------
     Aged 67. Mrs Cha is the Chairman of the Financial Services Development Council. She is also a Hong Kong Deputy to the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. She previously served as Chairman of the University Grants Committee and the Advisory Committee on Corruption of the Independent Commission Against Corruption, and was an Independent Non-executive Director of the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. She was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2009.

Professor Arthur Li Kwok-cheung
-------------------------------
     Aged 71. Professor Li is the Chairman of the Council of The University of Hong Kong and Chairman of the Council for Sustainable Development. He is also a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. Professor Li was formerly Professor of Surgery and Chairman of the Department of Surgery, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine and Vice-Chancellor at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. He was the Secretary for Education and Manpower from July 2002 to June 2007. Professor Li was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2000.

Mr Chow Chung-kong 
------------------
     Aged 66. Mr Chow is currently the Chairman of the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited as well as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Corruption of the Independent Commission Against Corruption and the Advisory Committee on Admission of Quality Migrants and Professionals. He is also a member of the Economic Development Commission and the Commission on Strategic Development and a Steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club. Mr Chow was the Chief Executive Officer of the MTR Corporation Limited from December 2003 to December 2011. He was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2015.

Mrs Fanny Law Fan Chiu-fun
--------------------------
     Aged 64. Mrs Law is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation, Special Advisor of the China-United States Exchange Foundation and a Director of the Fan Family Charitable Trust Fund. She is also a Hong Kong Deputy to the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. Mrs Law joined the Administrative Service of the Hong Kong civil service in October 1977 and rose through the ranks to Director of Bureau (subsequently re-titled Administrative Officer Staff Grade A1) in August 2001. She was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2003.

Mr Jeffrey Lam Kin-fung
------------------------
     Aged 65. Mr Lam is Managing Director of Forward Winsome Industries Limited, a Legislative Council Member and Vice Chairman of the Business and Professionals Alliance for Hong Kong. He is also a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. Mr Lam also serves as Chairman of the Mega Events Fund Assessment Committee, Chairman of the Independent Commission Against Corruption Complaints Committee, Honorary President of the Pearl River Delta Council as well as a member of the General Committee of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of Hong Kong Industries. He was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2011.

Mr Ip Kwok-him
------------------------
     Aged 66. Mr Ip is currently a Hong Kong Deputy to the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. He was previously a Legislative Council Member and a member of the Central and Western District Council. He also served as a Non-executive Director of the Board of the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Authority and the Urban Renewal Authority, as well as a member of the Court of The University of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Housing Authority and the Governing Committee of the Beat Drugs Fund Association. He was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2004.

Mr Tommy Cheung Yu-yan
------------------------
     Aged 67. Mr Cheung is currently a Legislative Council Member, Chairman of the Liberal Party, a Council Member of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Chairman of the Hong Kong Catering Industry Association and Honorary Life President of the Association of Restaurant Managers. He previously served as an Eastern District Councillor as well as a member of the Hong Kong Housing Authority, the Liquor Licensing Board, the Business Facilitation Advisory Committee and the Advisory Committee on Admission of Quality Migrants and Professionals. Mr Cheung was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2015.

Mr Martin Liao Cheung-kong
------------------------
     Aged 59. Mr Liao is a Barrister and a Legislative Council Member. He is Chairman of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing (Financial Institutions) Review Tribunal, a Steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club and a Hong Kong Deputy to the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. He previously served as Chairman of the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications, a Council Member of The University of Hong Kong and a Part-time Member of the Central Policy Unit. Mr Liao was awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star in 2014.

Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong
------------------------
     Aged 68. Mr Yam is currently the Executive Vice President of the China Society for Finance and Banking and Distinguished Research Fellow of the Lau Chor Tak Institute of Global Economics and Finance at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. He had a public service career of over 38 years, dealing mainly with monetary and financial affairs. He was the first Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority from 1993 to 2009. Mr Yam was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star and the Grand Bauhinia Medal in 2001 and 2009 respectively.

Mrs Regina Ip Lau Suk-yee
--------------------------
     Aged 66. Mrs Ip is currently a Legislative Council Member and the Chairperson of the New People's Party and the Savantas Policy Institute. Mrs Ip joined the Administrative Service of the Hong Kong civil service in September 1975 and rose through the ranks to Director of Bureau in May 2000. She served as the Secretary for Security from August 1998 to July 2003, and was an Executive Council Member from October 2012 to December 2016. She was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2002.

Mr Ronny Tong Ka-wah
------------------------
     Aged 66. Mr Tong is a Senior Counsel. He is currently the Convenor of his think tank, Path of Democracy. He was previously a Legislative Council Member, Chairman of the Hong Kong Bar Association and a member of the Economic and Employment Council. He also served as a Deputy Judge of the High Court in 1992 and 2002.

Mr Wong Kwok-kin
------------------------
     Aged 65. Mr Wong is currently a Legislative Council Member and Vice President of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions. He previously served as a Hong Kong Deputy to the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China from 2003 to 2012. Mr Wong was awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star in 2014.

Dr Lam Ching-choi
------------------------
     Aged 56. Dr Lam is currently the Chief Executive Officer of Haven of Hope Christian Service. He also serves as Chairman of the Elderly Commission and the Community Investment and Inclusion Fund Committee as well as a member of the Health and Medical Development Advisory Committee, the Land and Development Advisory Committee and the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications. Dr Lam was awarded the Bronze Bauhinia Star in 2008.

Mr Kenneth Lau Ip-keung
------------------------
     Aged 50. Mr Lau is Vice Chairman of Wing Tung Yick Holdings Limited. He is currently a Legislative Council Member, a Tuen Mun District Councillor, Chairman of New Territories Heung Yee Kuk, Chairman of Tuen Mun Rural Committee, and Vice Chairman of the Business and Professionals Alliance for Hong Kong. He is also a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. He sits on the Disaster Relief Fund Advisory Committee and the Advisory Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries as a member.

Mr Cheung Kwok-kwan
------------------------
     Aged 42. Mr Cheung is a practising lawyer, a Legislative Council Member, a Central and Western District Councillor and Vice Chairman of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong. He also serves as Chairman of the Practice and Examination Committee of the Estate Agents Authority and a member of the Hong Kong Housing Authority. He was previously a member of the Long Term Housing Strategy Steering Committee.

Ends/Thursday, June 22, 2017
Issued at HKT 12:14

NNNN
