Appointment of Under Secretaries and Political Assistants (with photos)
***********************************************************************

     The Chief Executive's Office announced today (August 1) that the Chief Executive, Mrs Carrie Lam, on the recommendations of the Appointment Committee, appointed 10 Under Secretaries and eight Political Assistants of the fifth term of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government.

     The 10 Under Secretaries and eight Political Assistants are:

Under Secretaries

Under Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, Dr Bernard Chan Pak-li
Under Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs, Mr Andy Chan Shui-fu
Under Secretary for Development, Mr Liu Chun-san
Under Secretary for Education, Dr Choi Yuk-lin
Under Secretary for the Environment, Mr Tse Chin-wan
Under Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, Mr Joseph Chan Ho-lim
Under Secretary for Food and Health, Dr Chui Tak-yi
Under Secretary for Innovation and Technology, Dr David Chung Wai-keung
Under Secretary for Labour and Welfare, Mr Caspar Tsui Ying-wai
Under Secretary for Security, Mr Sonny Au Chi-kwong

Political Assistants

Political Assistant to the Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, Miss Elizabeth Fung Hoi-yung
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Development, Mr Allen Fung Ying-lun
Political Assistant to the Secretary for the Environment, Ms Michelle Au Wing-tsz
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, Miss Pauline Yeung
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Home Affairs, Ms Jade Lai Wing-yu
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Innovation and Technology, Miss Lillian Cheong Man-lei
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Security, Mr Cassius Lau Fu-sang
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Transport and Housing, Mr Mark Fu Chuen-fu

     "Recruiting talents on merit is the guiding principle for forming my governing team. The newly appointed Under Secretaries and Political Assistants agree with my manifesto and share my philosophy of governance for the new-term Government. Passionate, capable and committed, they will certainly contribute to their respective policy areas through assisting the Secretaries to liaise extensively with various sectors of the community, strengthening communication between the Government and the legislature, gauging views from different channels and explaining government policies and measures to achieve effective governance and build a better Hong Kong," Mrs Lam said.

     The following Under Secretaries and Political Assistants will assume office on August 2:

Under Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, Dr Bernard Chan Pak-li
Under Secretary for Development, Mr Liu Chun-san
Under Secretary for Education, Dr Choi Yuk-lin
Under Secretary for the Environment, Mr Tse Chin-wan
Under Secretary for Innovation and Technology, Dr David Chung Wai-keung
Under Secretary for Labour and Welfare, Mr Caspar Tsui Ying-wai
Under Secretary for Security, Mr Sonny Au Chi-kwong
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Development, Mr Allen Fung Ying-lun
Political Assistant to the Secretary for the Environment, Ms Michelle Au Wing-tsz
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Home Affairs, Ms Jade Lai Wing-yu
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Security, Mr Cassius Lau Fu-sang
Political Assistant to the Secretary for Transport and Housing, Mr Mark Fu Chuen-fu

     The Under Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs, Mr Andy Chan Shui-fu, and the Under Secretary for Food and Health, Dr Chui Tak-yi, will assume office on August 3 and August 7 respectively; the Under Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, Mr Joseph Chan Ho-lim, and the Political Assistant to the Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, Miss Pauline Yeung, will assume office on August 16; and the Political Assistant to the Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, Miss Elizabeth Fung Hoi-yung, and the Political Assistant to the Secretary for Innovation and Technology, Miss Lillian Cheong Man-lei, will assume office on September 1 and September 8 respectively. The Government will announce the appointment of the remaining two Under Secretaries and six Political Assistants in due course.

     The Report on Further Development of the Political Appointment System, issued in October 2007, recommended that Under Secretaries and Political Assistants should be appointed and removed by the Chief Executive on the advice of the Appointment Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Secretaries of Department, relevant Directors of Bureau, and the Director of the Chief Executive's Office as members.

     Following are the biographical notes on the new appointees:

Dr Bernard Chan Pak-li 
--------------------------
     Aged 40. Dr Chan was Political Assistant to the Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development from March 2013 to June 2017. 

     Before joining the Government, Dr Chan spent about 10 years working in the technology sector, gaining experience in intellectual property trading and crossover collaboration. From 2008 to 2013, Dr Chan served as a member of the Kwun Tong District Council.

     Dr Chan is a member of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB) and the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions. He holds a bachelor degree in electrical engineering and a PhD degree in biomedical engineering from Duke University, the US.

Mr Andy Chan Shui-fu
-------------------------
     Aged 44. Mr Chan has been Deputy Secretary for Transport and Housing (Transport) since July 2012.

     Mr Chan joined the Government's Administrative Service in July 1994 and rose to his present rank of Administrative Officer Staff Grade B in April 2014. He has served in various bureaux and departments, including the former Health and Welfare Branch, the Tai Po District Office, the Security Bureau, the Private Office of the Chief Secretary for Administration, the Tourism Commission, the Food and Health Bureau and the Home Affairs Department. 

Mr Liu Chun-san
-------------------
     Aged 55. Mr Liu has been the Project Manager (New Territories West Development Office) of the Civil Engineering and Development Department (CEDD) since December 2014.
 
     Mr Liu joined the Government as an Assistant Engineer in August 1986. He was promoted to Chief Engineer of the CEDD in August 2009, Government Engineer in June 2013, and Principal Government Engineer in January 2016.

Dr Choi Yuk-lin
-----------------
     Aged 50. Dr Choi has worked in the education field for over 20 years. She taught in secondary schools for more than a decade since 1988, before joining the Education Bureau where she was responsible for school-based curriculum development and language teaching support. In 2013, she took up the principalship of a secondary school. During the period, she took part in social and educational work, including the setting up of the Hong Kong Teachers Dream Fund. She also served on the Fight Crime Committee and the Commission on Youth.

     Dr Choi graduated from the Hong Kong Baptist University, majoring in Chinese language, literature and culture. Following continuing education, she completed postgraduate programmes including Master of Arts (Linguistics), Master of Education and Doctor of Education at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and Master of Arts (Chinese Language, Literature and Culture) at the Hong Kong Baptist University.

Mr Tse Chin-wan
-------------------   
     Aged 59. Mr Tse has been the Deputy Director of the Environmental Protection Department since April 2013.
 
     Mr Tse joined the former Environmental Protection Agency as an Environmental Protection Officer in June 1985. He was promoted to Principal Environmental Protection Officer in June 1991 and Assistant Director of Environmental Protection in April 1996.

Mr Joseph Chan Ho-lim
--------------------------   
     Aged 40. Mr Chan is the Managing Director in the Global Markets Division of an international bank. Prior to that, he held various management posts in the trade, responsible mainly for business with financial institutions in Asia. Mr Chan had also served in a number of public and professional bodies including the Hong Kong Society of Financial Analysts, the Chinese Gold and Silver Exchange Society and the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. He was elected to the Central and Western District Council in 2012 and 2016. Mr Chan is a member of the Liberal Party.

Dr Chui Tak-yi
-----------------   
     Aged 59. Dr Chui has been the Cluster Chief Executive of Kowloon East Cluster and the Hospital Chief Executive of United Christian Hospital of the Hospital Authority (HA) since July 2014.

     Dr Chui has over 30 years of experience in the public healthcare system. He was the Chief of Service (Geriatrics and Rehabilitation Unit) of Haven of Hope Hospital from 2002 to 2008 and promoted to Hospital Chief Executive of the Hospital in 2008. He held a number of management positions in Kowloon East Cluster, including Service Director (Occupational Medicine and Care Service), Service Director (Quality and Safety) and Deputising Chief Manager (Service Planning and Transformation), and was appointed as Deputising Chief Manager (Patient Safety and Risk Management) in the HA Head Office.

Dr David Chung Wai-keung
-------------------------------- 
     Aged 51. Dr Chung was Under Secretary for Innovation and Technology from March 2016 to June 2017.

     Dr Chung has nearly 30 years of experience in information technology (IT) strategic management and entrepreneurship development, and worked in several IT firms. He joined Hong Kong Cyberport Management Company Limited in March 2004 and was responsible for taking forward Cyberport's IT infrastructure and incubation. He was Chief Technology Officer when he left Cyberport in February 2016. Public service positions held by Dr Chung include Council Member of the Hong Kong Computer Society, Convenor of the IT Expert Advisory Group of the Consumer Council, and Member of the Hong Kong/Guangdong Expert Committee on Cloud Computing Services and Standards.

Mr Caspar Tsui Ying-wai 
---------------------------      
     Aged 40. Mr Tsui was Political Assistant to the Secretary for Home Affairs from June 2008 to June 2012 and from September 2012 to June 2017.

     He holds a Bachelor of Social Sciences Degree from the University of Ottawa and a Master Degree in Business Administration from the University of Manchester. Before joining the Government, Mr Tsui worked in the banking sector. He joined the DAB in 2006.

Mr Sonny Au Chi-kwong
---------------------------
     Aged 55. Mr Au has been Director of Crime and Security of the Hong Kong Police Force since March 2016.

     He joined the Hong Kong Police Force in 1980 as a Police Constable and was appointed as an Inspector in March 1986. He was promoted to Chief Superintendent in September 2007, Assistant Commissioner of Police in September 2011 and Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police in May 2015. He has held a variety of posts including Assistant Commissioner (Security) and Director of Personnel and Training.

Miss Elizabeth Fung Hoi-yung
----------------------------------
     Aged 29. Miss Fung has a Master Degree in Public Administration in International Development and works in an international public relations consultancy firm, providing communications services to corporations, multilateral organisations, non-government organisations and governments. She is a member of Path of Democracy.

Mr Allen Fung Ying-lun
--------------------------
     Aged 35. Mr Fung was Political Assistant to the Secretary for Development from March 2014 to June 2017. 

     Before joining the Government, Mr Fung worked in different companies and an international organisation. He was the Vice President (Corporate Development) of a subsidiary of Hong Kong Resources Holdings. He also served as a Public Service Assistant to the then Convenor of the Non-official Members of the Executive Council Mr C Y Leung.

Ms Michelle Au Wing-tsz
---------------------------
     Aged 41. Ms Au was appointed as Political Assistant to the Secretary for the Environment from January 2013 to June 2017.

     Ms Au worked at Asia Television Limited where she was responsible for information programmes. From 2005 to 2012, she worked for Friends of the Earth (HK), where her areas of focus centred on waste policy and education.  

Miss Pauline Yeung
---------------------
     Aged 31. Miss Yeung holds a bachelor's degree in public and international affairs from Princeton University. She is a Senior Researcher at Our Hong Kong Foundation. Prior to that, she undertook research projects for various financial institutions including Morgan Stanley Asia and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.

Ms Jade Lai Wing-yu
-----------------------
     Aged 40. Ms Lai was Political Assistant to the Secretary for Labour and Welfare from November 2013 to June 2017. 

     Prior to joining the Government, Ms Lai served as Hong Kong United Foundation's Deputy Director and the Bauhinia Foundation Research Centre's Director of Advocacy.

Miss Lillian Cheong Man-lei
-------------------------------
     Aged 28. Miss Cheong holds a Bachelor of Social Sciences degree from the University of Hong Kong, double majoring in politics and public administration and global studies. She serves as Assistant to Executive Director and Joint General Manager and Manager of Executive Office at a property development and investment company. Miss Cheong was a co-opted member of the Community Building Committee of the Wan Chai District Council. She is currently an advisor of the Arete and a member of the Public Affairs Forum.

Mr Cassius Lau Fu-sang
---------------------------
     Aged 60. Mr Lau was Political Assistant to the Secretary for Security from October 2012 to June 2017.

     Mr Lau joined the Hong Kong Police Force as a probationary inspector in 1980. He was promoted to Chief Superintendent in 2007 and retired in 2011. In his police career, he served in various operational formations and headquarters posts, where he was responsible for administering force policies on training, personnel and operations related to disaster management, as well as planning and developing future police facilities.

Mr Mark Fu Chuen-fu
------------------------
     Aged 29. Mr Fu holds a bachelor's degree in science (actuarial science) from the University of Hong Kong. He has obtained a number of professional qualifications, including member of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountant and Chartered Financial Analyst of the CFA Institute. He served as Financial Services Manager of an international accounting firm before joining the Government. He joined the Liberal Party in 2013 and was elected as the chairman of the Liberal Party Youth Committee in 2016. He was responsible for transport issues.

Ends/Tuesday, August 1, 2017
Issued at HKT 16:36

NNNN
